# PI DigitalTwin


<!-- WARNING: THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! -->

# AVEVA PI System Integration: Template Guide

## Introduction: Overview

This document provides a comprehensive guide to PI DIGITAL TWIN for
Operations, offering best practices for PI System customers seeking
around-the-clock surveillance of industrial assets with fault
diagnostics and prescriptive actions. These practices address naming
patterns, time series pattern recognition, anomaly detection,
subscriptions, prescribed actions, visualization, and reporting.

## Key Output

The critical output from a PI Digital Twin for operations are anomalies
(exceptions) found in time series historical data. Anomalies are
detected by the PI system and become cases for the operations team to
resolve. Case records store alerts, annotation, user names, procedures,
links, photos, files, sensor data, related data, and calculations.

## Value Proposition

The PI Digital Twin delivers value to operations customers in these
areas:

- More discovery of root causes of poor performance
- More process insight and data driven decisions
- Reduced PI software configuration costs
- Reduced need for 3rd party solutions on top of the PI System

## PI Digital Twin Library Suite

The table below outlines the libraries and templates available to
accelerate building Digital Twin systems in the PI System.

<table style="width:100%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 16%" />
<col style="width: 16%" />
<col style="width: 16%" />
<col style="width: 16%" />
<col style="width: 16%" />
<col style="width: 16%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr>
<th style="text-align: left;">Library (Abbrev)</th>
<th style="text-align: left;">Purpose</th>
<th style="text-align: left;">Best Practices</th>
<th style="text-align: left;">Asset Templates</th>
<th style="text-align: left;">Accessory Templates</th>
<th style="text-align: left;">Overlays</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: left;">BASE (BAS)</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Foundation of Containers, Asset classes,
Asset super classes, Global Accessories</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Layered Libraries, Cascaded Naming</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Containers</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">SingleAnalog Sensor, DifferentialAnalog,
Global Configuration</td>
<td style="text-align: left;"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: left;">Pumps (PMP) Rotating Equipment</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Detect anomalies in pump performance</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Primary Asset, Lowest Start, ParentFlex,
Sibling Comm</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Centrifugal Pump</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Pump Efficiency</td>
<td style="text-align: left;"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: left;">Heat Exchangers (HEX) Fixed Equipment</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Detect anomalies in Heat Exchanger
performance</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Primary Asset, Lowest Start,
ParentFlex</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Heat Exchanger</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">HEX Fouling</td>
<td style="text-align: left;"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: left;">Valves (VLV)</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Detect anomalies in control valve
performance</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Primary Asset, Lowest Start</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Control Valve, Block Valve</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Cv Flow Calculation</td>
<td style="text-align: left;"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: left;">Motors (MTR) Powered Assets</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Detect anomalies in AC Electric motor
operation and health</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Secondary Asset, Template Inheritance:
Control Based, OEM Drill-In, Sibling Comm</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Motor DOL</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Motor NamePlate, Motor 3PH Power, Motor
Slip</td>
<td style="text-align: left;"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: left;">Forecasting (FOR)</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Time series pattern recognition of trends
with projection into future data</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Future Data, TSPR, Accessory
flexibility</td>
<td style="text-align: left;"></td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Forecast</td>
<td style="text-align: left;"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: left;">Controllers (CTL)</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Detect anomalies in control performance to
indicate physical anomalies and poor operation</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">ParentFlex, TSPR</td>
<td style="text-align: left;"></td>
<td style="text-align: left;">PID Controller, PID Controller Strain, PID
KPI</td>
<td style="text-align: left;"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: left;">Asset Specifications (ASP)</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Basic Asset specification: Mfr, Model,
Size</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Element Overlay</td>
<td style="text-align: left;"></td>
<td style="text-align: left;"></td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Assets</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: left;">Vibration Monitoring (VIB)</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Detect anomalies in vibration. ISO/TC
108/SC 5 Condition monitoring and diagnostics of machine systems</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">ParentFlex, TSPR, Related Data Reqmts</td>
<td style="text-align: left;"></td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Accelerometer, Proximity Probe, Fault
Frequency</td>
<td style="text-align: left;"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: left;">Energy Management Electrical (EME)</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Detect anomalies in power consumption</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Element Overlay</td>
<td style="text-align: left;"></td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Power Meter</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Containers, Assets, Powered Assets</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: left;">Geographic Location (GEO)</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Link to Map using Latitude, Longitude</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Element Overlay, URI External</td>
<td style="text-align: left;"></td>
<td style="text-align: left;"></td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Assets</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: left;">UI Bridge – IBM Maximo (MAX)</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Links to IBM Maximo w/ asset context</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Element Overlay, URI External</td>
<td style="text-align: left;"></td>
<td style="text-align: left;"></td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Assets</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: left;">UI Bridge – SAP (SAP)</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Links to SAP/Plant Maintenance w/ asset
context</td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Element Overlay, URI External</td>
<td style="text-align: left;"></td>
<td style="text-align: left;"></td>
<td style="text-align: left;">Assets</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## What is a Digital Twin

A Digital Twin is a digital replica of physical assets built to compare
live performance against expected performance. The PI system is often
used to make a digital twin for physical assets in industrial
operations. PI is well suited for digital twins since PI is a single
system of record across disparate data sources.

## How to Start a PI Digital Twin

PI Digital Twin best practices are included in a PI Asset Framework
library kit with PIVision displays. This kit is delivered by AVEVA
engineers in a coaching workshop. The Digital Twin kit for the PI System
extends the PI infrastructure to ensure a swift and sturdy launch of a
Digital Twin.

## Advanced PI Digital Twin Best Practices

**Data compression** – Compression settings for sensor data is best
managed as a function and responsibility of the asset template. This
practice avoids excessive computational load when compression settings
are not consistently set.

**Data Quality/Censoring** – Physical characteristics and operating
principles should be used to further validate incoming sensor data and
discard data that would otherwise generate false alerts and add
excessive computational load.

**Asset Families and Accessories deliver more at greater Depth** – Many
assets and accessories start with models having minimal data streams and
then include advanced siblings and/or offspring with additional data
streams.

### Links

[Best
Practices](https://osisoft.lightning.force.com/lightning/r/Knowledge__kav/ka01I000000fNAsQAM/view)
